<h2>btar - Block TAR</h2>

Tar-compatible archiver which allows arbitrary compression and ciphering,
redundancy, differential backup, indexed extraction, multicore compression,
input and output serialisation, and tolerance to partial archive errors.

Features:
  *  Single file backup
  *  Optional indexed access
  *  Serialisable listing, backup and restore
  *  Backups (btar files) can be restored with usual unix tools (sh and tar)
  *  Allows any compression, ciphering, etc. (if you have a program that does so), and still
     resist partial corruption (-F)
  *  Can add an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erasure_code|erasure code]
    (block XOR of the others) that can protect against one erasure (-R)
  *  Can do quick incremental backups (rearchive only the files that changed) (-d/-D)
  *  Can work over a [http://gnu.org/software/tar|GNU tar] output (even indexing it)
  *  Can be used in pipelines, with little memory usage even for big backup
sizes
  *  Can parallelize the filter operations on any number of processes (compression, ciphering, ...) (-j)
  *  Can extract parts of the backup filtering (uncompressing, deciphering) only the
relevant blocks
  *  Sending USR1 will show a progress report on stderr (on btar file creation)
  *  If linked with librsync, will only save deltas of big files on differential backup (-Y)
  *  The files can be re-filtered (-m) through pipes, not requiring extraction and reachiving.

Problems:
  *  1.1 is simply in a "works for the me (author)" state. I store my backups *only* with it.
  *  The incremental backups are only based on mtime.
  *  Only supports regular files, directories and symlinks. No hard link storage
  *  A small tool provided (xortest) can recover one full lost block from the
btar. But a better tool could be written, for non overlapping in-block
small erasures. Maybe based on a ddrescue log file.

[/doc/tip/doc/principle.wiki|Learn how it works] -
[/doc/tip/doc/requirements.wiki|How it compares to other backup tools]

<h3>Download</h3>

Stable version: [http://vicerveza.homeunix.net/~viric/soft/btar/btar-1.1.tar.gz|btar-1.1.tar.gz] - 62KB - GPLv3+
- [http://vicerveza.homeunix.net/~viric/soft/btar/ChangeLog|ChangeLog]

Trunk version: [/tarball/btar-trunk.tar.gz?uuid=trunk|trunk tarball] (should be stable, and possibly with fixes after the release)

<h2>Use cases</h2>

Backup the home with xz compression with 4 cores:
<verbatim>
# btar -F xz -j 4 -f /mnt/usbb/backup/myhomebackup.btar -c /home/
</verbatim>

Update to a diff backup:
<verbatim>
# btar -F xz -j 4 -d /mnt/usbb/backup/myhomebackup.btar \
    -f  /mnt/usbb/backup/myhomebackup_diff.btar \
    -c /home/
</verbatim>

Backup the mail using 4 cores with gpg, and add an XOR redundancy. Use
gpg-agent or it will ask a password per block.
<verbatim>
$ btar -F "gpg2 -se" -j 4 -R -c mail > /mnt/usbb/backup/mymailbackup.btar
</verbatim>

Extract only my mail from the home backup made with xz (or whatever it was):
<verbatim>
$ btar -x -f /mnt/usbb/backup/myhomebackup.btar 'home/viric/mail/*' 
</verbatim>

Test that a btar file contents are still the same on disk (although if a file
is missing in the btar, it will not report it):
<verbatim>
$ btar -T -f /mnt/usbb/backup/myhomebackup.btar | tar d
</verbatim>

<h2>btar -h</h2>
<verbatim>
btar 1.1 [e5b0e4f692] Copyright (C) 2011-2012  Lluis Batlle i Rossell
usage: btar [options] [actions]
actions:
   -c       Create a btar file. Non-options mean directories or files to add.
   -x       Extract the btar contents to disk.
              In this case, non-options mean glob patterns to extract.
   -T       Extract the btar contents as a tar to stdout.
              In this case, non-options mean glob patterns to extract.
   -l       List the btar index contents.
   -L       Output the btar index as tar.
   -m       Mangle filters and block size from stdin to output btar (-f or stdout)).
   (none)   Make btar file from the standard input data (filter mode).
options only meaningful when creating or filtering:
   -b <blocksize>   Set the block size in megabytes (default 10MiB)
   -d <file>        Take the index in the btar file as files already stored
   -D <file>        Take the index file as files already stored
   -f <file>        Output file while creating, input while extracting, 
                      or stdin/out if ommitted.
   -F <filter>      Filter each block through program named 'filter'.
   -H               Delete files as noted in diff backups, when extracting.
   -j <n>           Number of blocks to filter in parallel.
   -N               Skip making an index in the btar, make only blocks.
   -R               Add a XOR redundancy block.
   -U <filter>      Filters for the index and deleted list.
   -v               Output the file names on stderr (on action 'c').
   -X <pattern>     Add glob exclude pattern.
   -Y               Create and use rsync signatures in indices for binary diff.
other options:
   -G <defilter>    Defilter each input block through program named 'filter'.
                      May be relevant for '-d' when creating/filtering, or extracting.
   -V               Show traces of what goes on. More V mean more traces.
examples:
   tar c /home | btar -b 50 -F xz > /tmp/homebackup.btar
   btar -F xz -c -f mydir.btar mydir
   btar -d mydir.btar -v -c mydir > mydir2.btar
   btar -T 'mydir/m*' < mydir.btar | tar x
 This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
 This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
 under certain conditions. See the source distribution for details.
</verbatim>

Licence: GPLv3 or later

Author: Lluís Batlle i Rossell &lt;viric@virictar.name&gt; (without the word <strong>tar</strong>)
